18: Document Element Picker and how to create Elements (#8086)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 18/umbraco-cms/model-your-content/content-types-and-structure/data/defining-content/elements.md

---
description: Learn how to use Elements to add reusable content to your website.
---

# Elements

> Instead of replicating the same content on a per-page basis, Elements allows you to separate and abstract content into a single source of truth. By creating your content once, you can reuse it across as many pages and documents as you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of replicating the same content on a per-page basis, Elements allow you to create reusable content. By creating your content once, you can reuse it across as many pages and documents as you need.
```

Elements are ideal for call-to-action blocks, banners, and other shared content that appears across multiple pages.

## Manage Elements

> Elements are configured in the Settings section and managed from the Library section. They are referenced in your content using the Element Picker property.

Reviewer: Is there another article explaining the Library section that can be linked from here? Neither of these articles mentions anything about it. It would be good to have info about:
- central editorial hub for reusable content, not just storage
- permissions for Library access,
- who can create/edit Elements,
- or how Library organization affects editors.
- editing a Library Element updates all references across the site.
- what happens when an element in use is deleted?
- when to use Library-based Elements vs Block List/Grid?

In the Elements feature video, it is a complete section in itself, so it would be good to have an article describing it in detail.

Author: I don't think a full article about the Library section is necessary, but I've planned to mention it in the Sections article (https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cms/get-started/editors-manual/getting-started-with-umbraco/sections).

Most of the bullets you've added here could be implemented in this article.

Reviewer: As far as it mentions a bit more details, it's fine even if it's not a full article :)

### Build and Configure Elements

> Elements are created as Element Types in the Settings section of the Umbraco backoffice. As with all Element Types, Elements are not routable and are not attached to a Template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elements are based on Element Types defined in the Settings section of the Umbraco backoffice. As with all Element Types, Elements are not routable and are not attached to a Template.
```

Author: "Created as" is actually correct here.
You create an Element Type, and then you select "Allow in Library" to start using it for creating Elements.

> Toggle the **Allow in Library** option on the Structure Workspace View to turn your Element Type into an Element.

Reviewer: This line needs to be rephrased. Shouldn't this be a toggle to select if you want to create an element of this type to show up in the Library section (at least that's what I read in the image 🙈)? To turn an element type into Element there is an "Is element type" toggle.

Author: The image below is from an "Element Type".
If you toggle the "Allow in Library", the Element Type can be used to create Elements in the Library.
So, an Element is really just an Element Type that you can create content based of in the Library section.

Hope it makes sense 🙏

Reviewer: Ah ok.. This explanation makes more sense 💪

![Element Type Structure tab with Allow in Library toggled](../../../../.gitbook/assets/elements-allow-in-library.png)

> You can add groups, tabs and properties to an Element like you would any other Document Type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add groups, tabs, and properties to an Element like you would any other Document Type.
```

Since your project will contain different Document Types, group your Elements into a dedicated folder to keep your workspace organized.

### Create Elements

With your Element configured, you can start using it to create reusable content in the Library section.

1. Click the **+** icon.
2. Select which Element you want to create content based on.
3. Fill in the relevant properties.
4. **Save** or **Save and Publish** once the content is ready.

> [Image of Library Section here.]

Reviewer: Image is missing.

To maintain an overview of your reusable content, it can be a good idea to use folders for organizing the content in your Library.

### Use Elements

> Once you have created the elements in the Library section, they can be used across all documents and content on your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have created the elements in the Library section, they can be referenced anywhere an Element Picker has been configured.
```

> [Image of an element added to a content node/document here.]

Reviewer: Image missing

Elements are created as Element Types in the Settings section of the Umbraco backoffice. As with all Element Types, Elements are not routable and are not attached to a Template.

Toggle the **Allow in Library** option on the Structure Workspace View to turn your Element Type into an Element.

![Element Type Structure tab with Allow in Library toggled](../../../../.gitbook/assets/elements-allow-in-library.png)

You can add groups, tabs, and properties like you would to any other Element and Document Type.

Since your project will contain different Document Types, group your Elements into a dedicated folder to keep your workspace organized.

### Create Elements

With your Element configured, you can start using it to create reusable content in the Library section.

1. Click the **+** icon.
2. Select which Element Type you want to base the Element on.
3. Fill in the relevant properties.
4. **Save** or **Save and Publish** once the content is ready.

![The Library section with an Element selected](../../../../.gitbook/assets/elements-library-section.png)

To maintain an overview of your reusable content, it can be a good idea to use folders for organizing the content in your Library.

> Use the **Info** workspace view to find relevant details about the element, such as history and where they element is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the **Info** workspace view to find relevant details about the element, such as history and where the element is used.
```
